A Bitcoin Farmers Market

By TripleJaku

A simple place for local producers and consumers to connect and transact using Bitcoin.
Farmers Markets based on Bitcoin are in complete alignment with the true values of freedom
tech and transparent food supply chains, in this writer's opinion. Part one will explain the history
and the why of it all, part two will explain the how, in the hope anyone could reproduce it in their
locale. All branding and assets will be open sourced, but social media publicity will not be
provided to anyone acting in bad faith or shitcoinery. This writer is not an academic, merely
someone who has read a little and built some things, so there will be no citations.

Part 1

A Brief History of Open Air Markets

There is not a clear timeline on when markets of this nature started, but it’s obviously easy to
assume that economic actors would gravitate to places where trade was most abundant. As
early as Mesopotamia, there were urban centers, the Medina, zocalos, town squares and alleys
where people would gather to exchange.
A hub of this fashion facilitated a movement of goods that would not have otherwise been
possible, and lended itself to the idea that real market participants should be the true arbiters of
price discovery.
In Medieval Europe, market days were mandated by the nobles or religious authority. It became
a way for serfs, nobles and farmers to exchange a multitude of excess produce, in order to
prepare for long winters.
The Medina market was an essential part of Mecca’s economy, a place of cooperation between
different creeds, ethnicities and religions, that sought fair prices for all involved.
In the American colonies, farmers markets became an essential part of a nascent nation;
newcomers in townships were able to trade with outlying producers, leading to a self-sustaining
mechanism that allowed people to push further west. The earliest recorded farmers market in
these times is in Boston, in 1634.

The Decline

The industrial age clearly brought many economic wonders to mankind. Sadly, and in
accordance with Triffin's Dilemma, this prosperity also had its consequences. The rise of
supermarkets and the industrialization of agriculture in the 20th century, along with theintroduction of fiat, bureaucracy and Rockefeller domination, led to a general decline of a
decentralized food supply. Fast forward to 1970 and most consumers purchase their goods in a
large refrigerated warehouse(otherwise known as a Walmart, et. al.) without any connection to
the people who produce their food.
Not only is this a problem for the locally conscious, it poses a serious security risk for any nation
that hopes to maintain stability. If a country has to import their food, and for whatever reason
that disappears, there will be turmoil. By giving consumers the opportunity to support small local
producers, you strengthen an independent food supply chain, and by paying them in sats one is
guaranteeing their future purchasing power and ability to continue their operations in the future.

The Why

Much in the same way that people have become disconnected from money, without any
knowledge of where it comes from or how it is produced, they are completely detached from
their food. What the Bitcoin Farmers Market offers, in its own tiny way, is a way to push back
against these two very significant problems in modern society.
It provides a forum to express a desire for a better world, to vote with your money, and to have
fun staying permissionless, whilst supporting local producers. It is this writer's hope that many
will pop up all over the world, and as a decentralized movement we can disrupt the supermarket
cartels, wherever they may be.

Part 2

How To Begin
One might be surprised how easy it is for an individual to start their own BFM, but ironically it will
also involve a lot of work.One can just do things. Even more surprising might be the amount of
Bitcoiners that show up. From personal experience; for something that started as a potential
one off event, it immediately became clear that real Bitcoiners were eager to show support and
let the sats flow. Bitcoin is cash, afterall. The hope for this section is that anyone inspired can
learn from the mistakes this writer has made.

Venue

●​ Find a location that is central to your community.
●​ You will need at least 50 square meters of open space.
●​ There will need to be ample parking within a reasonable distance.●​ If the ground is flat, even better.
●​ Consider your climate, and whether shade is something vendors will need.
●​ There will need to be amenities such as toilets, trash cans, and electricity.
Make an agreement with the property owner. This may be something that can be facilitated free
of charge(particularly if they have an existing business on the property, as foot traffic is a great
thing to have), or you may have to sacrifice a little for the sake of the event in the initial
bootstrapping phase. Public parks and church grounds are options as well.

Vendors

Approaching local vendors is key.
●​ Let them know what you are planning and invite them to participate free of charge. Aim
for a wide variety of vendors, and do not be afraid to approach retail stores, many may
be interested.
●​ Utilize Instagram and Twitter to find small local producers and artisans.
●​ Make it clear(but don’t be too pushy) they will have to accept Bitcoin as payment, and
that it is an easy process provided they have a smartphone, and there is also
Machunkura if they have a dumbphone. Consider an option for fiat exchange after the
event if they are wary of Bitcoin, this will assuage many concerns. We did this for the first
month, and after that, no one cared to use it; they wanted to keep their sats.
●​ Many small producers are eager for the opportunity to find new customers, and many of
them deal only in cash, explain the similarities between paper money and its
permissionless privacy, and highlight the superiority of Lightning in this regard.
●​ Get their email, or start a group chat on your preferred messaging service. Sadly, you
will most likely have to expose yourself to WhatsApp. Use this as a forum to
communicate standards, whether folks need to bring their own furniture and what the
operational hours are.
●​ Impress upon them that there are Bitcoiners out there that believe in this softwares P2P
monetary qualities, and that these people will show up to let the sats flow.

Coffee
This might sound ludicrous, but do not underestimate the power of coffee or tea. It will bring
many people. Find one or multiple vendors who will make coffee on site for consumers. The
idea of getting a good coffee and having a stroll around a market on a Saturday or Sundaymorning may not appeal to everyone, but it is something that resonates deeply with me, and
many others in my opinion.

Rules
Don’t overcomplicate it.
●​ All are welcome, except those looking to sell illegal goods or cause trouble.
●​ No politics. By this I mean no flag flying or political protests.
●​ Vendors must accept Bitcoin payment, though not exclusively. There will be consumers
who wish to pay in paper. This is just a reality, and you should not chastise a vendor if
they come to an agreement with a consumer on fiat rails. The point is that if a pleb wants
to pay for something in Bitcoin, they should be able to do so.

Consistency
This is crucial, pick a day and a consistent time, whether it is once a fortnight or once a quarter,
or anywhere in between. Stick to it. This will breed loyalty amongst your patrons. They have to
know the market will be there on a regular basis, whatever that basis may be. Before you know
it you will have a following.

Marketing
Start a Twitter, Nostr, and Instagram account for the event. Get a designer, make it look fun. Do
not underestimate the power of social media. Start advertising at least 5 days in advance of
each market. Build a following. We will help you in this regard provided you are a good faith
actor.

Conclusion
I do not recommend doing this if you think it is something you can make money off of. One could
certainly charge vendors to cover the cost of the event, which is great for long term
sustainability. I recommend doing this if you believe in Bitcoin. I have found it to be one of the
most effective orange pills I have ever seen, and a truly humbling experience when real
Bitcoiners show up to support. One can recommend books and podcasts, but sometimes people
just need to see it in action before they go down the rabbit hole. It’s a cliche for a reason, but be
the change you want to see in the world.
